README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/blob/master/gnomock.png">
</div>

# <div align="center">Gnomock – test your code without mocks</div>

🏗️ Spin up entire dependency stack

🎁 Setup initial dependency state – easily!

🏭 Test against actual, close to production software

⏳ Spend no time writing mocks

🕹️ Test actual program behavior and side effects

## <div align="center">[![PkgGoDev](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/orlangure/gnomock)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock) ![Build](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/workflows/Build/badge.svg) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/orlangure/gnomock)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/orlangure/gnomock)</div>

Gnomock is an integration and end-to-end testing toolkit. It uses Docker to
create **temporary containers** for application dependencies, **setup** their
**initial state** and **clean them up** in the end. Gnomock allows to test the
code with **no mocks** wherever possible.

The power of Gnomock is in a variety of [Presets](#official-presets), each
implementing a specific database, service or other tools. Each preset provides
ways of setting up its initial state as easily as possible: SQL schema
creation, test data upload into S3, sending test events to Splunk, etc.

The name "Gnomock" stands for "no mock", with a "G" for "Go" 😼. It also sounds
like "gnome", that's why the friendly garden gnome artwork (by [Michael
Zolotov](https://www.mzolotov.com/))

## Table of contents

- [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Using Gnomock in Go applications](#using-gnomock-in-go-applications)
  - [Using Gnomock server](#using-gnomock-server)
- [Official presets](#official-presets)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Getting started

Gnomock runs exposes an API over HTTP. This API is defined using OpenAPI 3.0
[specification](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3). Go
programs can use an extended Gnomock package directly, without the HTTP layer,
while other languages require communication with a Gnomock server.

Gnomock **requires** a running and working Docker daemon running locally in the
same environment.

### Using Gnomock in Go applications

Gnomock can be used in Go programs directly, without running a local server.
See the following example to get started:

```
go get github.com/orlangure/gnomock
```

Setting up a **Postgres** container with schema setup example:

```go
import (
	"database/sql"

	_ "github.com/lib/pq" // postgres driver
	"github.com/orlangure/gnomock"
	"github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/postgres"
)

p := postgres.Preset(
    postgres.WithUser("gnomock", "gnomick"),
    postgres.WithDatabase("mydb"),
    postgres.WithQueriesFile("/var/project/db/schema.sql"),
)
container, _ := gnomock.Start(p)
defer func() { _ = gnomock.Stop(container) }()

connStr := fmt.Sprintf(
    "host=%s port=%d user=%s password=%s  dbname=%s sslmode=disable",
    container.Host, container.DefaultPort(),
    "gnomock", "gnomick", "mydb",
)
db, _ := sql.Open("postgres", connStr)
// db has the required schema and data, and is ready to use
```

See package
[reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock?tab=doc). For
Preset documentation, refer to [Presets](#official-presets) section.

### Using Gnomock server

To start a `gnomock` server, run the following on any Unix-based system:

```bash
docker run --rm \
    -p 23042:23042 \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
    -v `pwd`:`pwd` \
    orlangure/gnomock
```

`-p 23042:23042` exposes a port on the host to communicate with `gnomock`. You
can use any port you like, just make sure to configure the client properly.

`-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock` allows `gnomock` to communicate
with the docker engine running on host. Without it `gnomock` can't access
docker.

If you use any file-related `gnomock` options, like `WithQueriesFile`, you have
to make the path you use available inside the container:

```
# this makes the current folder appear inside the container under the same
# path and name:
-v `pwd`:`pwd`
```

Any program in any language can communicate with `gnomock` server using OpenAPI
3.0 [specification](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/).

Below is an example of setting up a **MySQL** container using a `POST` request:

```
$ cat mysql-preset.json
{
  "preset": {
    "db": "mydb",
    "user": "gnomock",
    "password": "p@s$w0rD",
    "queries": [
      "create table foo(bar int)",
      "insert into foo(bar) values(1)"
    ],
    "queries_file": "/home/gnomock/project/testdata/mysql/queries.sql"
  },
  "options": {}
}

$ curl --data @mysql-preset.json http://127.0.0.1:23042/start/mysql
{
  "id": "f5d08dc84421",
  "host": "string",
  "ports": {
    "default": {
      "protocol": "tcp",
      "port": 35973
    }
  }
}
```

There are auto-generated wrappers for the available API:

| Client | Sample code |
|--------|-------------|
| [Python SDK](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock-python-sdk) | [Code](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/blob/master/sdktest/python/test/test_sdk.py) |
| JavaScript SDK | |
| PHP SDK | |
| Ruby SDK | |
| PHP SDK | |
| Java SDK | |
| [Other](https://openapi-generator.tech/docs/generators) languages | |

**For more details and a full specification, see
[documentation](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/).**

Installation instruction, as well as pre-compiled binaries for MacOS and Linux,
are coming soon.

## Official presets

The power of Gnomock is in the Presets. Presets, both existing and planned, are
listed below:

| Preset | Go package | HTTP API | Go API | Latest stable image |
|--------|------------|----------|--------|---------------------|
Localstack | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/localstack) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startLocalstack) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/localstack?tab=doc) | 0.11.0
Splunk | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/splunk) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startSplunk) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/splunk?tab=doc) | 8.0.2
Redis | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/redis) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startRedis) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/redis?tab=doc) | 5
Memcached | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/memcached) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMemcached) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/memcached?tab=doc) | 1.6.6-alpine
MySQL | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/mysql) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMysql) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/mysql?tab=doc) | 8
PostgreSQL | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/postgres) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startPostgres) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/postgres?tab=doc) | 12
Microsoft SQL Server | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/mssql) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMssql) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/mssql?tab=doc) | 2019-latest
MongoDB | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/mongo) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMongo) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/mongo?tab=doc) | 4
RabbitMQ | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/rabbitmq) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startRabbitMq) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/rabbitmq?tab=doc) | 3.8.5-alpine
Kafka | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/kafka) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startKafka) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/kafka?tab=doc) | 2.5.1-L0
Elasticsearch | |
DynamoDB | |
Cassandra | |
MariaDB | |

It is possible to use Gnomock directly from Go code without any presets. HTTP
API only allows to setup containers using presets that exist in this
repository.

## Troubleshooting

### Tests with Gnomock take too long and time-out eventually

It happens a lot locally if your internet isn't fast enough to pull docker
images used in tests. In CI, such as in Github Actions, the images are
downloaded very quickly. To work around this issue locally, pull the image
manually before running the tests. You only need to do it once, the images stay
in local cache until deleted. For example, to pull Postgres 11 image, run:

```
docker pull postgres:11
```

### Tests time-out even when the image exists locally

It can happen if the containers can't become ready to use before they time out.
By default, Gnomock uses fairly high timeouts for new containers (for starting
and for setting them up). If you choose to change default timeout using
`WithTimeout` (`timeout` in HTTP), it is possible that the values you choose
are too short.

### Tests pass when run one-by-one, and fail when run in parallel

It happens when you try to start up **a lot** of containers at the same time.
The system, especially in CI environments such as Github Actions, cannot handle
the load, and containers fail to become healthy before they time-out. That's
the reason Gnomock has a few separate build jobs, each running only a small
subset of tests, one package at a time.

### Containers fail to setup with a "File not found" error

If you run `gnomock` as a server, you need to make sure the files you use in
your setup are available inside `gnomock` container. Use `-v $(pwd):$(pwd)`
argument to `docker run` to mount the current working directory under the same
path inside the `gnomock` container. If you prefer to keep a permanent
`gnomock` container running, you can mount your entire `$HOME` directory (or
any other directory where you keep the code).

Commit message:

Add asciicast of me writing tests using Gnomock

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/blob/master/gnomock.png">
</div>

# <div align="center">Gnomock – test your code without mocks</div>

🏗️ Spin up entire dependency stack

🎁 Setup initial dependency state – easily!

🏭 Test against actual, close to production software

⏳ Spend no time writing mocks

🕹️ Test actual program behavior and side effects

## <div align="center">[![PkgGoDev](https://pkg.go.dev/badge/github.com/orlangure/gnomock)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock) ![Build](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/workflows/Build/badge.svg) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/orlangure/gnomock)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/orlangure/gnomock)</div>

Gnomock is an integration and end-to-end testing toolkit. It uses Docker to
create **temporary containers** for application dependencies, **setup** their
**initial state** and **clean them up** in the end. Gnomock allows to test the
code with **no mocks** wherever possible.

The power of Gnomock is in a variety of [Presets](#official-presets), each
implementing a specific database, service or other tools. Each preset provides
ways of setting up its initial state as easily as possible: SQL schema
creation, test data upload into S3, sending test events to Splunk, etc.

The name "Gnomock" stands for "no mock", with a "G" for "Go" 😼. It also sounds
like "gnome", that's why the friendly garden gnome artwork (by [Michael
Zolotov](https://www.mzolotov.com/))

## Demo

See for yourself how easy and fast it is to write tests that use actual
services running in ephemeral Docker containers:

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/jSJJGk0n3q1g4Fc4bvZYYyifN.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/jSJJGk0n3q1g4Fc4bvZYYyifN)

## Table of contents

- [Getting started](#getting-started)
  - [Using Gnomock in Go applications](#using-gnomock-in-go-applications)
  - [Using Gnomock server](#using-gnomock-server)
- [Official presets](#official-presets)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Getting started

Gnomock runs exposes an API over HTTP. This API is defined using OpenAPI 3.0
[specification](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3). Go
programs can use an extended Gnomock package directly, without the HTTP layer,
while other languages require communication with a Gnomock server.

Gnomock **requires** a running and working Docker daemon running locally in the
same environment.

### Using Gnomock in Go applications

Gnomock can be used in Go programs directly, without running a local server.
See the following example to get started:

```
go get github.com/orlangure/gnomock
```

Setting up a **Postgres** container with schema setup example:

```go
import (
	"database/sql"

	_ "github.com/lib/pq" // postgres driver
	"github.com/orlangure/gnomock"
	"github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/postgres"
)

p := postgres.Preset(
    postgres.WithUser("gnomock", "gnomick"),
    postgres.WithDatabase("mydb"),
    postgres.WithQueriesFile("/var/project/db/schema.sql"),
)
container, _ := gnomock.Start(p)
defer func() { _ = gnomock.Stop(container) }()

connStr := fmt.Sprintf(
    "host=%s port=%d user=%s password=%s  dbname=%s sslmode=disable",
    container.Host, container.DefaultPort(),
    "gnomock", "gnomick", "mydb",
)
db, _ := sql.Open("postgres", connStr)
// db has the required schema and data, and is ready to use
```

See package
[reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock?tab=doc). For
Preset documentation, refer to [Presets](#official-presets) section.

### Using Gnomock server

To start a `gnomock` server, run the following on any Unix-based system:

```bash
docker run --rm \
    -p 23042:23042 \
    -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
    -v `pwd`:`pwd` \
    orlangure/gnomock
```

`-p 23042:23042` exposes a port on the host to communicate with `gnomock`. You
can use any port you like, just make sure to configure the client properly.

`-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock` allows `gnomock` to communicate
with the docker engine running on host. Without it `gnomock` can't access
docker.

If you use any file-related `gnomock` options, like `WithQueriesFile`, you have
to make the path you use available inside the container:

```
# this makes the current folder appear inside the container under the same
# path and name:
-v `pwd`:`pwd`
```

Any program in any language can communicate with `gnomock` server using OpenAPI
3.0 [specification](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/).

Below is an example of setting up a **MySQL** container using a `POST` request:

```
$ cat mysql-preset.json
{
  "preset": {
    "db": "mydb",
    "user": "gnomock",
    "password": "p@s$w0rD",
    "queries": [
      "create table foo(bar int)",
      "insert into foo(bar) values(1)"
    ],
    "queries_file": "/home/gnomock/project/testdata/mysql/queries.sql"
  },
  "options": {}
}

$ curl --data @mysql-preset.json http://127.0.0.1:23042/start/mysql
{
  "id": "f5d08dc84421",
  "host": "string",
  "ports": {
    "default": {
      "protocol": "tcp",
      "port": 35973
    }
  }
}
```

There are auto-generated wrappers for the available API:

| Client | Sample code |
|--------|-------------|
| [Python SDK](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock-python-sdk) | [Code](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/blob/master/sdktest/python/test/test_sdk.py) |
| JavaScript SDK | |
| PHP SDK | |
| Ruby SDK | |
| PHP SDK | |
| Java SDK | |
| [Other](https://openapi-generator.tech/docs/generators) languages | |

**For more details and a full specification, see
[documentation](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/).**

Installation instruction, as well as pre-compiled binaries for MacOS and Linux,
are coming soon.

## Official presets

The power of Gnomock is in the Presets. Presets, both existing and planned, are
listed below:

| Preset | Go package | HTTP API | Go API | Latest stable image |
|--------|------------|----------|--------|---------------------|
Localstack | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/localstack) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startLocalstack) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/localstack?tab=doc) | 0.11.0
Splunk | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/splunk) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startSplunk) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/splunk?tab=doc) | 8.0.2
Redis | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/redis) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startRedis) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/redis?tab=doc) | 5
Memcached | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/memcached) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMemcached) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/memcached?tab=doc) | 1.6.6-alpine
MySQL | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/mysql) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMysql) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/mysql?tab=doc) | 8
PostgreSQL | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/postgres) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startPostgres) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/postgres?tab=doc) | 12
Microsoft SQL Server | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/mssql) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMssql) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/mssql?tab=doc) | 2019-latest
MongoDB | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/mongo) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startMongo) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/mongo?tab=doc) | 4
RabbitMQ | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/rabbitmq) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startRabbitMq) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/rabbitmq?tab=doc) | 3.8.5-alpine
Kafka | [Go package](https://github.com/orlangure/gnomock/tree/master/preset/kafka) | [Docs](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/orlangure/gnomock/1.4.3#/presets/startKafka) | [Reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/orlangure/gnomock/preset/kafka?tab=doc) | 2.5.1-L0
Elasticsearch | |
DynamoDB | |
Cassandra | |
MariaDB | |

It is possible to use Gnomock directly from Go code without any presets. HTTP
API only allows to setup containers using presets that exist in this
repository.

## Troubleshooting

### Tests with Gnomock take too long and time-out eventually

It happens a lot locally if your internet isn't fast enough to pull docker
images used in tests. In CI, such as in Github Actions, the images are
downloaded very quickly. To work around this issue locally, pull the image
manually before running the tests. You only need to do it once, the images stay
in local cache until deleted. For example, to pull Postgres 11 image, run:

```
docker pull postgres:11
```

### Tests time-out even when the image exists locally

It can happen if the containers can't become ready to use before they time out.
By default, Gnomock uses fairly high timeouts for new containers (for starting
and for setting them up). If you choose to change default timeout using
`WithTimeout` (`timeout` in HTTP), it is possible that the values you choose
are too short.

### Tests pass when run one-by-one, and fail when run in parallel

It happens when you try to start up **a lot** of containers at the same time.
The system, especially in CI environments such as Github Actions, cannot handle
the load, and containers fail to become healthy before they time-out. That's
the reason Gnomock has a few separate build jobs, each running only a small
subset of tests, one package at a time.

### Containers fail to setup with a "File not found" error

If you run `gnomock` as a server, you need to make sure the files you use in
your setup are available inside `gnomock` container. Use `-v $(pwd):$(pwd)`
argument to `docker run` to mount the current working directory under the same
path inside the `gnomock` container. If you prefer to keep a permanent
`gnomock` container running, you can mount your entire `$HOME` directory (or
any other directory where you keep the code).
